Document ServiceControl / ServicePulse support for authentication and SSL/TLS (#7947)
Particular/docs.particular.net: servicepulse/security/configuration/tls.md

---
title: ServicePulse TLS Configuration
summary: How to enable and configure TLS for ServicePulse
reviewed: 2026-01-14
component: ServicePulse
related:
- servicepulse/security/hosting-guide
- servicecontrol/security/configuration/tls
---

> [!NOTE]
> This page is **not** relevant if the [ServicePulse static files have been extracted](/servicepulse/install-servicepulse-in-iis.md), and is being hosted in anything other than the [Container](/servicepulse/containerization/) or [Windows Service](/servicepulse/installation.md) hosting options provided. If using [authentication](/servicepulse/security/configuration/authentication.md), it is recommended to use TLS encryption.

ServicePulse can be configured to use HTTPS directly, enabling encrypted connections without relying on a reverse proxy for SSL termination.

## Configuration

> There are two hosting options for ServiceControl, [Container](/servicepulse/containerization/) and [Windows Service](/servicepulse/installation.md). The container is configured via environment variables and the windows service is configured using command-line arguments. See the [Hosting Guide](../hosting-guide.md) for example usage of these configuration settings in conjustion with [Authentication](authentication.md) and [Forward Headers](forward-headers.md) configuration settings in a scenario based format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two hosting options for ServiceControl, [Container](/servicepulse/containerization/) and [Windows Service](/servicepulse/installation.md). The container is configured via environment variables, while the Windows Service is configured using command-line arguments. See the [Hosting Guide](../hosting-guide.md) for example usage of these configuration settings, along with [Authentication](authentication.md) and [Forward Headers](forward-headers.md), in a scenario-based format.
```
